Welcome to the finance and accounting simulation
tool - or FAST. Each manager should be able to
understand how managerial decisions affect the
financial health of a firm or an organisation, or
understand how the firm is doing financially. This
is what you will learn in this simulation. It
requires no prior knowledge at all of either
accounting or finance. We will guide you step by step
through important financial statements that are
produced by accountants: the balance sheet, profit and loss or
income statement and cashflow statement. We will
provide you as well with the basic tools to
analyse the financial statements to understand the
firm's current financial risk and past value
creation. The goal of this course is not to turn
you into financial or accounting experts. Rather, it
gives you the tools to understand the language
of accountants, controllers, financial managers.
Further, all managerial decisions, in whatever
department, affect an organisation's financial
health. After having gone through the simulation,
you should be able to understand how your
decisions affect your organisation's financial
risk and value creation. Within the simulation,
you will start your own company, Aquasail.
It's aimed at manufacturing top quality sailboats.
You will run it for two years, and translate all your
decisions into accounting statements.
Enjoy the learning!